Now it's time to talk about the top shortcuts for managing presentations.
Shortcut #11: Ctrl M
As you work on your presentation, you are constantly adding new slides.
Normally, you can do this by going to the 'Home' tab, clicking
the 'New Slide' command, and choosing the right layout,
which, of course, takes time.
Instead, just hit Ctrl M,
and the new slide will appear based on that last used layout. In my case, this is the 'Title Only'.
Shortcut #12, Shift + Normal View icon. The standard way of going to the Slide Master
is going to the 'View'  tab, and clicking the 'Slide Master' icon.
Of course, there is much more convenient way to do this.
Just press Shift and click on the 'Normal View' icon, which you can find here at the bottom part of your
screen.
Notice that I was taken to the 'Title Only' layout first, because this is the layout I'm currently
on.
If I press Shift and 'Normal View' icon once again, PowerPoint takes me to the Parent layout which controls
the look of the whole presentation.
You can get more information how to program your Slide Master
in part two of this course. And to go back to your normal view,
just click on the 'Close Master View' command.
Shortcut #13 and 14.
F5 and Shift F5
To start slideshow from the current slide, press Shift F5 shortcut.
I strongly advise you to use this shortcut often in the process of building your presentation.
Why?
It simply allows you to see what your audience will see,
and even more importantly, helps you to catch any potential mistakes like wrong alignment or bad
picture quality, which will go unseen using the normal slide view.
F5 alone,
on the other hand, runs the presentation from the very beginning.
So, whenever you start presenting, press F5.
Shortcut #15 and 16
Ctrl A
Ctrl H
Is this pesky white arrow bother you when you are presenting?
If you find that indeed it might distract your audience, you can easily hide it.
Generally, the pointer automatically disappears after three seconds of inactivity, and it reappears
when you move the mouse.
But you can force it to disappear whenever you like by simply pressing Ctrl H.
However, this isn't a toggle operation. Pressing
Ctrl H again doesn't make the pointer reappear.
To display the pointer again, press
Ctrl A.
To memorize these shortcuts.
Just think of H for 'Hide',
and A four 'Arrow'.
Shortcut #17
Ctrl Shift H
The Notes Pane is a place where you put additional information that doesn't appear on slides during
presenting.
You can open it by pressing Ctrl Shift H.
Use the same keyboard shortcut to close it.
What is important,
you can easily change the look of your Notes Pane.
For example, you can manipulate the height of your window to any level you want by simply dragging.
Please keep in mind that inside the Notes Pane
you can also display bold, italic or underlines.
You can also use numbered or bulleted list.
You can zoom in and zoom out like this by scrolling with your mouse.
Another good reason you might start to use Ctrl Shift H shortcut is that any text you put to your
Notes Pane would appear inside the presenter mode. To open the presenter mode,
press Alt Shift F5.
This is what audience will see, and this is the part which is seen by you only. The notes can be easily
revised and can help you in delivering the content.